---
date: 2026-07-12 00:01:00
layout: post
title: "Starlink Analysis – Supplement(8):Confirmation of Unique Word (UW) Usage"
thread: 2026071201
categories: starlink
tags: OFDM Starlink modem burst feeder-link gateway satellite Unique-Word UW
---

I continued reading the Starlink patent US12003350 and summarized the information related to the use of the Unique Word (UW). The patent was filed in early 2021, so readers should consider its timeliness accordingly.

The UW is used differently on different communication links.

Satellite–Terminal Link

Uplink:
When multiple terminals access the same satellite, each terminal is assigned a different UW. The UW is generated by a 7-stage LFSR-based PN generator, driven by the Channel ID.

Downlink:
When multiple satellites cover the same geographic area, for example to improve reliability or avoid signal blockage, each satellite is assigned a different UW.

Satellite–Gateway Link

Communication between a satellite and a gateway station is always point-to-point. There is no scenario in which multiple satellites communicate with the same gateway simultaneously, or multiple gateways communicate with the same satellite simultaneously.

However, this link uses two Ka-band polarizations, LHCP and RHCP, and a different UW is assigned to each polarization.


<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
    /* * * CONFIGURATION VARIABLES: EDIT BEFORE PASTING INTO YOUR WEBPAGE * * */
    var disqus_shortname = 'jiaoxianjun'; // required: replace example with your forum shortname

    /* * * DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE * * */
    (function() {
        var dsq = document.createElement('script'); dsq.type = 'text/javascript'; dsq.async = true;
        dsq.src = '//' + disqus_shortname + '.disqus.com/embed.js';
        (document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]).appendChild(dsq);
    })();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="http://disqus.com/?ref_noscript">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>


<!-- Global site tag (gtag.js) - Google Analytics -->
<script async src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/gtag/js?id=G-01GGQ8JZW7"></script>
<script>
  window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
  function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments);}
  gtag('js', new Date());

  gtag('config', 'G-01GGQ8JZW7');
</script>

<script async src="https://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/js/adsbygoogle.js?client=ca-pub-1542618827905251"
     crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
